> okay whats next? 

⏺ Looking at our todo list, the next task is designing Pass 1.5 Medical Code Resolution system. This is a critical component
  that sits between Pass 1 entity detection and Pass 2 clinical enrichment.

  Let me check the current planning documents to understand what's already been defined:

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-2-clinical-enrichment/PASS-2-
      OVERVIEW.md)
  ⎿  Read 150 lines

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-2-clinical-enrichment/archive
      /pass2-commencement-draft-planning-file.md)
  ⎿  Read 150 lines

⏺ Based on the summary and the archived planning file, the next major task is designing Pass 1.5 Medical Code Resolution. This
   is the critical dependency that sits between Pass 1 entity detection and Pass 2 clinical enrichment.

  Here's what needs to be designed for Pass 1.5:

  Pass 1.5 Medical Code Resolution System

  Purpose: Provide AI-selected medical code candidates (LOINC, SNOMED, RxNorm, PBS, MBS) to Pass 2 so it can assign codes
  WITHOUT generating them freely.

  Key Components:

  1. Vector Embedding Pipeline
    - Embed entity text from Pass 1 (e.g., "Blood Pressure: 128/82 mmHg")
    - Query vector database for top 10-20 similar medical codes
    - Return candidates with similarity scores
  2. Medical Code Database Tables
    - universal_medical_codes (LOINC, SNOMED, RxNorm)
    - regional_medical_codes (PBS, MBS for Australia)
    - Both tables need vector embeddings pre-computed
  3. Integration Point
    - Triggered: After Pass 1 entity detection, before Pass 2 enrichment
    - Input: Entity text + entity category from Pass 1
    - Output: JSON array of code candidates with similarity scores
  4. Pass 2 Integration
    - AI receives pre-computed candidates in prompt
    - AI selects best match with confidence score
    - Writes to medical_code_assignments table

  Should I proceed with:
  1. Creating a detailed design document for Pass 1.5?
  2. Defining the technical architecture (embedding model, vector DB, API)?
  3. Planning the database schema for code storage and retrieval?

> first i think we should build out the folder shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing
-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding with whatever sub folders and files (plaeholder 
or fleshed out) that will guide us as we build it. I want to have a definitve plan file somehwere that also 
links to all important files that i will list out for you now:    1. the main planning and specs files for 
this medical coding step can be found in this folder 
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution ; do a tree
 command on it but i think these files within it are the most important to open and read: 
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/README.md
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/simple-data
base-schema.md
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/embedding-b
ased-code-matching.md , but for the purpose of planning out pass 1.5 and the planning file we should list 
out all these files with brief 1-2 line descriptions of what they are (for usefule quick reference).    2. 
the purpose of having this medical code system can sort of be due to the contents of this folder/concept: 
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management so do a 
tree command on that too and consider openining and reading all those files too. But in case you run out of 
context ebfore you 'compact' respond to me here with your plan for the folder/file structure for 
shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medical-co
de-embedding then once i confirm it, we can build it and then you can start creating the main planning file 
- does that all make sense 
  ⎿ ⧉ Selected 1 lines from shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/temporal-da
    ta-management/temporal-conflict-resolution.md in Cursor

⏺ Bash(tree /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3
      _Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution -L 3)
  ⎿ /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Fe
    atures_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution
    ├── README.md
    … +15 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


⏺ Bash(tree /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3
      _Features_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management -L 3)
  ⎿ /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Fe
    atures_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management
    ├── README.md
    … +15 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


⏺ Perfect! Now let me read the key files to understand the medical code resolution system:

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/README.m
      d)
  ⎿  Read 175 lines

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/simple-d
      atabase-schema.md)
  ⎿  Read 397 lines

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/embeddin
      g-based-code-matching.md)
  ⎿  Read 798 lines

⏺ Read(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/V3_Features_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management/README.
      md)
  ⎿  Read 117 lines

⏺ Perfect! I now understand the full context. Let me propose the folder/file structure for Pass 1.5 Medical
  Code Embedding:

  Proposed Folder Structure for Pass 1.5

  pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/
  ├── README.md                                    # Navigation hub with file descriptions
  ├── PASS-1.5-OVERVIEW.md                        # High-level architecture summary
  ├── PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md             # Master planning document (to be fleshed out)
  │
  ├── reference-documentation/                     # Links to existing specs
  │   └── README.md                               # Quick reference with descriptions
  │
  ├── database-schema/                            # Database implementation
  │   ├── README.md                               # Schema overview
  │   ├── migration-planning.md                   # Migration strategy (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── seed-data-strategy.md                   # Code database population plan (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── embedding-pipeline/                         # Vector embedding system
  │   ├── README.md                               # Pipeline overview
  │   ├── embedding-generation.md                 # OpenAI API integration (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── code-preprocessing.md                   # Search text optimization (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── batch-processing.md                     # Bulk embedding strategy (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── search-engine/                              # Vector similarity search
  │   ├── README.md                               # Search architecture
  │   ├── vector-search-logic.md                  # pgvector queries (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── candidate-selection.md                  # Top-K retrieval strategy (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── performance-optimization.md             # Caching and indexing (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── pass-integration/                           # AI pipeline integration
  │   ├── README.md                               # Integration overview
  │   ├── pass1-to-pass15-handoff.md             # Pass 1 output → code candidates (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── pass15-to-pass2-handoff.md             # Code candidates → Pass 2 prompt (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── worker-implementation-spec.md           # Render.com worker design (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── hypothesis-tests/                           # Validation tests
  │   ├── README.md                               # Test suite overview (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── test-01-embedding-accuracy.md           # Vector similarity validation (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── test-02-search-performance.md           # Latency and throughput (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── test-03-code-assignment-accuracy.md     # End-to-end accuracy (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  └── archive/                                    # Pre-implementation planning
      └── README.md                               # Archive index (PLACEHOLDER)

  File Descriptions for README.md Quick Reference:

  Reference Documentation (V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/):
  - README.md - Medical code resolution overview and integration with deduplication
  - simple-database-schema.md - 5-table database design (universal codes, regional codes, assignments,
  resolution log, RLS)
  - embedding-based-code-matching.md - Vector similarity search architecture and performance optimization
  - pass-integration.md - AI pipeline integration (Pass 1 → Vector Search → AI Selection → Pass 2)
  - code-hierarchy-selection.md - Code granularity logic and confidence thresholds
  - vague-medication-handling.md - Drug class mentions and ATC code assignment
  - australian-healthcare-codes.md - PBS/MBS/TGA integration and multi-regional expansion framework
  - data-type-coding/ - Entity-specific coding frameworks (medications, conditions, procedures, allergies,
  observations)

  Temporal Data Management (V3_Features_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management/):
  - README.md - Temporal data management overview (deduplication, historical tracking, conflict resolution)
  - deduplication-framework.md - Deterministic supersession logic using medical codes
  - clinical-identity-policies.md - Identity determination rules for safe clinical entity comparison
  - temporal-conflict-resolution.md - Date hierarchy and confidence propagation

  Does this structure make sense for organizing Pass 1.5? Should I proceed with creating these folders/files
   with placeholders?

> use opus to review your own plan, if you werent using opus already? 
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

> /model 
  ⎿  Set model to opus (claude-opus-4-1-20250805)

> review your plan again and respond back to me, aka is this the best way to strutrue it all? Do we need all
 these files and sub folders? are there more files that we need or more sub folder categorization? 

⏺ Let me review the proposed Pass 1.5 folder structure more critically:

⏺ Critical Review of Pass 1.5 Folder Structure

  After reviewing the plan, I think it's over-engineered for what Pass 1.5 actually is. Let me reconsider:

  What Pass 1.5 Really Is:

  - A simple vector search step between Pass 1 and Pass 2
  - NOT a complex AI pass requiring prompts and translations
  - Just retrieves top 10-20 medical code candidates via pgvector
  - Essentially a database lookup service with embedding matching

  Revised, Simpler Structure:

  pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/
  ├── README.md                                    # Navigation and overview
  ├── PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md             # Master planning document
  │
  ├── technical-design/
  │   ├── vector-search-architecture.md           # Core technical design
  │   ├── database-schema.md                      # Tables and pgvector setup
  │   └── integration-points.md                   # Pass 1 → 1.5 → Pass 2 handoffs
  │
  ├── code-data-preparation/
  │   ├── medical-code-sources.md                 # RxNorm, SNOMED, PBS, MBS data sources
  │   ├── embedding-generation-plan.md            # How to generate embeddings for codes
  │   └── data-population-scripts.md              # PLACEHOLDER - SQL/scripts to load data
  │
  ├── implementation/
  │   ├── worker-functions.md                     # PLACEHOLDER - TypeScript functions
  │   └── performance-benchmarks.md               # PLACEHOLDER - Speed/accuracy targets
  │
  └── testing/
      └── validation-plan.md                      # PLACEHOLDER - How to test accuracy

  Key Differences from Original Plan:

  Removed unnecessary complexity:
  - No need for separate embedding-pipeline/ and search-engine/ folders - these are just implementation
  details
  - pass-integration/ folder was redundant - integration is just input/output contracts
  - hypothesis-tests/ too granular - one validation plan is enough
  - archive/ not needed yet - we haven't even started

  Added what's actually needed:
  - code-data-preparation/ - Critical missing piece: WHERE do we get medical codes from?
  - technical-design/ - Consolidated all architecture into one place
  - Simpler implementation/ - Just the actual code/functions needed

  Do We Need More or Less?

  We might be MISSING:
  1. Australian-specific considerations - PBS/MBS code handling specifics
  2. Cost analysis - OpenAI embedding API costs for initial population
  3. Maintenance procedures - How to update codes quarterly/monthly

  We could REMOVE:
  - Even the testing/ folder might be premature - could just be a section in implementation plan

  Alternative Ultra-Minimal Structure:

  pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/
  ├── README.md                          # Everything overview
  ├── PASS-1.5-PLAN.md                  # Complete implementation plan
  ├── technical-design.md                # Architecture and database schema
  ├── medical-code-data-sources.md      # Where codes come from, how to populate
  └── implementation/                    # PLACEHOLDER folder for actual code
      └── README.md

  My Recommendation:

  Go with the Revised, Simpler Structure (middle option). It's:
  - Organized enough to guide implementation
  - Not over-engineered with empty folders
  - Focused on the critical pieces: vector search, data sources, integration

  The ultra-minimal might be TOO simple and the original was definitely too complex for what is essentially
  a vector similarity search service.

  What do you think? Should we go with the simpler structure?

> /model 
  ⎿  Set model to Default (Sonnet 4.5 · Smartest model for daily use)

> lets go with the Revised, Simpler Structure - build it now. Also i stillw ant to keep the part about the 
"File Descriptions for README.md Quick Reference:

  Reference Documentation (V3_Features_and_Concepts/medical-code-resolution/):
  - README.md - Medical code resolution overview and integration with deduplication
  - simple-database-schema.md - 5-table database design (universal codes, regional codes, assignments,
  resolution log, RLS)
  - embedding-based-code-matching.md - Vector similarity search architecture and performance optimization
  - pass-integration.md - AI pipeline integration (Pass 1 → Vector Search → AI Selection → Pass 2)
  - code-hierarchy-selection.md - Code granularity logic and confidence thresholds
  - vague-medication-handling.md - Drug class mentions and ATC code assignment
  - australian-healthcare-codes.md - PBS/MBS/TGA integration and multi-regional expansion framework
  - data-type-coding/ - Entity-specific coding frameworks (medications, conditions, procedures, allergies,
  observations)

  Temporal Data Management (V3_Features_and_Concepts/temporal-data-management/):
  - README.md - Temporal data management overview (deduplication, historical tracking, conflict resolution)
  - deduplication-framework.md - Deterministic supersession logic using medical codes
  - clinical-identity-policies.md - Identity determination rules for safe clinical entity comparison
  - temporal-conflict-resolution.md - Date hierarchy and confidence propagation"" and when writing out the 
'File Descriptions for README.md Quick Reference' just list the files themselves first (as hyperlink 
thingys) but then i will get you to go back later to add the decriptions for each one after you have opened 
and read them fully (unless you already have opened and read some of them fully in which case go ahead and 
add the descriptoion in this run). 

⏺ Bash(mkdir -p /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v
      3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-med…)
  ⎿  (No content)

⏺ Bash(mkdir -p /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v
      3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-med…)
  ⎿  (No content)

⏺ Bash(mkdir -p /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v
      3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-med…)
  ⎿  (No content)

⏺ Bash(mkdir -p /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v
      3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-med…)
  ⎿  (No content)

⏺ Now let me create the README.md file:

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/README.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 161 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-pla
     ning/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/README.md
     # Pass 1.5 Medical Code Embedding
     **Purpose:** Vector embedding system for medical code candidate retrieval
     **Status:** Planning Phase - Folder structure creation in progress
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +151 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Now let me create the placeholder files:

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 35 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md
     # Pass 1.5 Implementation Plan - Medical Code Embedding
     **Purpose:** Master planning document for Pass 1.5 vector embedding system
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created after reviewing all reference documentation
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +25 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/technical-design/vector-search-architecture.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 24 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/technical-design/vector-search-architecture.md
     # Vector Search Architecture
     **Purpose:** Core technical design for vector similarity search
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +14 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/technical-design/database-schema.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 30 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/technical-design/database-schema.md
     # Database Schema
     **Purpose:** Tables and pgvector setup for medical code embeddings
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +20 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/technical-design/integration-points.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 28 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/technical-design/integration-points.md
     # Integration Points
     **Purpose:** Pass 1 → 1.5 → Pass 2 handoff specifications
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +18 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/medical-code-sources.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 44 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/medical-code-sources.md
     # Medical Code Sources
     **Purpose:** Data sources for medical code databases
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +34 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/embedding-generation-plan.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 29 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/embedding-generation-plan.md
     # Embedding Generation Plan
     **Purpose:** Strategy for generating vector embeddings for medical codes
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +19 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/data-population-scripts.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 24 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/code-data-preparation/data-population-scripts.md
     # Data Population Scripts
     **Purpose:** SQL/scripts to load medical codes into database
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +14 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/implementation/worker-functions.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 25 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/implementation/worker-functions.md
     # Worker Functions
     **Purpose:** TypeScript implementation for Pass 1.5 vector search
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +15 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/implementation/performance-benchmarks.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 31 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/implementation/performance-benchmarks.md
     # Performance Benchmarks
     **Purpose:** Speed and accuracy targets for Pass 1.5
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +21 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Write(shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medica
       l-code-embedding/testing/validation-plan.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 40 lines to shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
     ing/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/testing/validation-plan.md
     # Validation Plan
     **Purpose:** Testing strategy for Pass 1.5 accuracy and performance
     **Status:** PLACEHOLDER - To be created
     **Created:** 2025-10-14
     ---
     … +30 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Perfect! Now let me verify the structure was created correctly:

⏺ Bash(tree /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai
      -processing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medical…)
  ⎿ /Users/xflanagan/Documents/GitHub/Guardian-Cursor/shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-pr
    ocessing-v3/implementation-planning/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding
    ├── PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md
    … +16 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


⏺ Excellent! The Pass 1.5 folder structure has been created successfully with the revised, simpler
  structure. Here's what was built:

  Created Structure:

  pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/
  ├── README.md                                    # Navigation hub with quick reference links
  ├── PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md             # Master planning document (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── technical-design/
  │   ├── vector-search-architecture.md           # Core technical design (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── database-schema.md                      # Tables and pgvector setup (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── integration-points.md                   # Pass 1 → 1.5 → Pass 2 handoffs (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── code-data-preparation/
  │   ├── medical-code-sources.md                 # RxNorm, SNOMED, PBS, MBS sources (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   ├── embedding-generation-plan.md            # How to generate embeddings (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── data-population-scripts.md              # SQL/scripts to load data (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  ├── implementation/
  │   ├── worker-functions.md                     # TypeScript functions (PLACEHOLDER)
  │   └── performance-benchmarks.md               # Speed/accuracy targets (PLACEHOLDER)
  │
  └── testing/
      └── validation-plan.md                      # Test strategy (PLACEHOLDER)

  Key Features:

  1. README.md includes:
    - Overview of Pass 1.5 purpose
    - Folder structure visualization
    - Quick reference section with hyperlinks to all related documentation in V3_Features_and_Concepts
    - Integration flow diagram
    - Success metrics
  2. All placeholder files have:
    - Clear purpose statements
    - Expected content descriptions
    - References to related documentation
  3. Documentation links preserved as requested, including both medical-code-resolution and
  temporal-data-management folders

  The next step would be to start filling out the PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md with the complete
  technical design. Ready to proceed with that when you are!

> /model 
  ⎿  Set model to opus (claude-opus-4-1-20250805)

> Im reading through shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plannin
g/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/README.md : 1. how many shortlisted medical codes should we provide for 
each entity provided by pass 1? or should we not put a hardwired cap and instead apply more a confidence or 
threshold system where if its above a certain value then it gets shrotlsited and provided to pass 2? Or do 
you think its just easier if we provide the top 10 o 20 or 30 ? We need to decide this now/early.    2. Line
 120 '- Pass 1 entity detection output format (PENDING - structure TBD)' i think we now do know the pass1 
output format - what does pass 1.5 need to know? 
  ⎿ ⧉ Selected 1 lines from shared/docs/architecture/database-foundation-v3/ai-processing-v3/implementation-plan
    ning/pass-1.5-medical-code-embedding/README.md in Cursor

⏺ Excellent questions! Let me analyze both:

  1. Medical Code Shortlist Strategy

  Looking at the reference documentation, I see conflicting guidance:

  - Most places say "10-20 candidates" (embedding-based-code-matching.md mentions this repeatedly)
  - Some places say "top 10" specifically

  My Recommendation: Hybrid Approach

  interface CodeCandidateStrategy {
    // Hard limits for token management
    MIN_CANDIDATES: 5,      // Always provide at least 5 (unless fewer exist)
    MAX_CANDIDATES: 20,     // Never exceed 20 (token cost control)

    // Confidence thresholds
    AUTO_INCLUDE_THRESHOLD: 0.85,  // Always include if similarity >= 0.85
    MIN_SIMILARITY: 0.60,           // Never include if similarity < 0.60

    // Dynamic selection
    TARGET_CANDIDATES: 10   // Aim for 10, but flex based on confidence
  }

  Why this approach:

  1. Token cost control: Hard cap at 20 prevents token explosion in Pass 2
  2. Quality guarantee: Minimum threshold (0.60) prevents garbage candidates
  3. Flexibility: Can return 5-20 based on actual similarity scores
  4. Safety: Always provides at least 5 options (unless truly no matches)

  Algorithm:
  1. Retrieve top 30 candidates from vector search
  2. Filter out any with similarity < 0.60
  3. Auto-include all with similarity >= 0.85
  4. Fill remaining slots up to 10 with next best
  5. If more than 10 have similarity >= 0.75, include up to 20
  6. Return final list (5-20 candidates)

  This gives Pass 2 AI enough options without overwhelming it or wasting tokens on poor matches.

  2. Pass 1 Output Format

  You're right - we DO know Pass 1's output! Looking at the actual Pass 1 implementation:

  Pass 1 Actually Outputs (to entity_processing_audit table):

  interface Pass1EntityOutput {
    // Core entity data
    id: UUID;
    shell_file_id: UUID;
    patient_id: UUID;
    processing_session_id: UUID;

    // Entity classification
    entity_category: 'clinical_event' | 'healthcare_context' | 'document_structure';
    entity_subcategory: string; // 'medication', 'vital_sign', 'lab_result', etc.

    // Extracted text
    entity_text: string;        // Raw extracted text
    normalized_entity: string;  // Cleaned/normalized version

    // Spatial data
    page_number: number;
    bounding_box: {x: number, y: number, width: number, height: number};

    // Confidence and metadata
    confidence_score: number;
    requires_review: boolean;

    // Processing status
    pass2_status: 'pending' | 'processing' | 'completed' | 'failed';
    pass2_processed_at?: timestamp;
  }

  What Pass 1.5 Specifically Needs:

  Essential fields:
  interface Pass15Input {
    entity_id: UUID;              // To track lineage
    entity_subcategory: string;   // To select appropriate code systems
    entity_text: string;          // Primary text to embed
    normalized_entity: string;    // Fallback/additional context
    patient_id: UUID;             // For Australian context detection
  }

  The key insight: Pass 1.5 needs to embed either:
  - entity_text (raw extracted)
  - normalized_entity (cleaned version)
  - Or a combination of both

  Critical Decision Needed:

  Which text should we embed for vector search?

  Option A: Use normalized_entity (cleaner, standardized)
  "Lisinopril 10mg daily" → embed this

  Option B: Combine both (more context)
  "Lisinopril 10mg daily [raw: Lisinopril 10 mg once daily]" → embed this

  Option C: Smart selection (based on entity type)
  function getEmbeddingText(entity: Pass1Output): string {
    // Medications: use normalized (standardized dose format)
    if (entity.entity_subcategory === 'medication') {
      return entity.normalized_entity;
    }

    // Conditions: use raw (preserve clinical nuance)
    if (entity.entity_subcategory === 'condition') {
      return entity.entity_text;
    }

    // Default: concatenate for maximum context
    return `${entity.normalized_entity} ${entity.entity_text}`.trim();
  }

  Updates Needed:

  1. Update README.md line 119-120:
  **Upstream:**
  - Pass 1 entity detection output: entity_text and normalized_entity from entity_processing_audit table

  2. Update integration-points.md with exact Pass 1 → Pass 1.5 contract
  3. Document the embedding text strategy in vector-search-architecture.md

  My recommendation: Use Option C (smart selection based on entity type) for optimal embedding quality.

  Should I update these files with these decisions?

> /model 
  ⎿  Set model to Default (Sonnet 4.5 · Smartest model for daily use)

  Todos
  ☒ Create Pass 2 folder structure with placeholder files
  ☒ Review and improve FK relationship explanation in PASS-2-PROMPTS.md
  ☒ Design Pass 1.5 Medical Code Resolution folder structure
  ☐ Create PASS-1.5-IMPLEMENTATION-PLAN.md with complete technical design